what is git?
Git is a distributed version control system. It's known for its speed, efficiency, and robust branching and merging capabilities. Git allows
developers to work on code offline, create feature branches, and merge changes easily.

Step 1: Installation:
apt install git-all

Step 2: Tell Git who you are

git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your@email.com"

There are four fundamental elements in the Git Workflow.
Working Directory, Staging Area, Local Repository, and Remote Repository


If you consider a file in your Working Directory, it can be in three possible states.
1. It can be staged. This means the files with the updated changes are marked to be committed to the local repository but not yet
committed.
2. It can be modified. This means the files with the updated changes are not yet stored in the local repository.
3. It can be committed. This means that the changes you made to your file are safely stored in the local repository.

Git Branching:
Branching allows teams of developers to easily collaborate inside of one central code base. When a developer creates a branch, the
version control system creates a copy of the code base at that point in time. Changes to the branch don't affect other developers on the
team.

important commands

git init - to intialise git 
git add file name - to move from wd to staging area
git commit -m"meassaage" - to move from staging to local repo
git push origin main - local to remote repo
git status - to check the status
git branch - to check which branch
git branch brancg name- to create a branch
git checkout branch name - to move from one branch to another
git checkout -b branch name - to create and move to branch
git clone url - to make a copy of remote repo files into the working directory
git pull url - it will show the latest changes in remote repo
git fetch - it will move the file from remote to local repo
git merge - it will move the file from local to working directory
git push origin branch_name - to push the changes to branch
git branch -D branch_name -to delete a branch

